Alright let's
finish this section with a simple programming exercise. Let's declare
2 variables, and set it to red, and
b, set it to blue. Now when we log
these on the console, obviously we're going to get
red and blue. Right? Now what I want you to do,
is to write some code here to swap the value of
these two variables. So when we log these on the console, instead of
getting red and blue, we're going to get blue and red. So pause
the video, spend a couple of minutes on this exercise, when you are done come
back and continue watching.
Alright to swap the value of two variables we
need a third variable. So we're going to declare another variable
let's call it c, we're going to use that as a backup.
So whatever you're storing in a, we're going to put that in
another variable that is c, then we're going to copy b to a
and finally what we have in c, which was the value of a before
we're going to copy that to b. Let me show you.
So we declare c, and set it to a.
So what we have in a which is red will be copied to c.
Now we want to overwrite a with b. So we set
a to be. The value of b is copied to a, now
both these variables at this point are blue. Finally
we're going to copy what we have with c which is the
original value of a, we're going to copy that to b. So we set b
to c, now, when we save the changes, instead of
red and blue we're going to see blue and red. So this proves
that we have swapped the value of these two variables. Now if you
couldn't do this exercise, don't worry, this is because you have not trained
your programming brain. And this requires a bit of time. Just like some
one who wants to go to the gym, they are not going to build muscle on day 1.
It requires time and effort. Now to help you train your programming brain,
I have designed lots of exercises for you in this course, so,
as you go through these exercises and look at my solutions, you'll start to
pick up some patterns and techniques to solve programming problems.
So once again, if you're going to do this exercise, don't be disappointed, that's perfectly fine.